The Project Gutenberg EBook of Poems of Life, by Katharine Forrest Hamill

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Poems of Life

Author: Katharine Forrest Hamill

Release Date: March 20, 2016 [EBook #51513]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK POEMS OF LIFE ***




Produced by Larry B. Harrison, Chuck Greif and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)











                             POEMS OF LIFE




                                 POEMS
                                OF LIFE

                                  By
                       KATHARINE FORREST HAMILL

                             PHILADELPHIA
                        PETER REILLY, PUBLISHER
                       133 N. THIRTEENTH STREET
                                 1915

                    COPYRIGHT 1915, BY PETER REILLY
                         PUBLISHED JULY, 1915

                           FIRST IMPRESSION




                                  TO

                        GRACE BARTLETT STRYKER


    Words fail me when I strive to say
    What you’ve meant to me--for so long a day
    Hope--Inspiration--Sympathy.
    Steadfast and true, whate’er might be.
    O priv’lege rarest to the end
    As in the past, to call you--_friend_.


          AUTHOR’S NOTE


The poems contained within the following pages are _children of the
brain_ which at intervals obtruded their company, and which, such as
they are, at the solicitation of my friends, I have ventured to set
down.

K. F. H.




          CONTENTS


Dedication                             IX

Author’s Note                          XI


POEMS OF LIFE.
                                     Page

Today                                   5

Jewels                                  6

Something Gone                          7

A-Maying                                8

Tribute                                 9

Good-Bye                               10

The Wondrous Song                      14

Miladi                                 17

The Something-my-life-has-missed       18

Contentment                            20

Gone                                   21

To My Muse                             22

Conception                             24

Awakening                              25

The House Built on Sands               26

To a Butterfly                         28

A Fragment                             29

Query                                  30

I Close Mine Eyes                      32

Understanding                          33

We Met in May                          34

I Turn Me Down a Lighted Way           36

Counsel                                37

Decision                               39

You Never Guessed the Secret           40

The Light                              42

Education                              43

Re-Adjustment                          44


FROM “RHYMES FOR WEE SWEETHEARTS”

When Grandmama Was Little              53

Harold’s Lament                        55

Mrs. Spider                            57

The Naughty Little Girl                58

On the Stair                           60

The Land O’Dreams                      61

The Middle of the Night                63

When Our Fathers Were Little Boys      65

Slumber Land                           67

The New Brother                        68




          POEMS OF LIFE




          TO-DAY


    The Yesterdays we might have called our own
      But which, in our blindness, we let slip by,
    Alas! they know not to return again,
      Deep-buried doth each, within its grave, lie.

    But O belov’ed, now that we have made
      The golden secret ours--to hold alway
    We will not sorrow o’er departed hours--
      Just live in God’s great glorious--To-day!




          JEWELS


    Oh, not the gracious deeds your kindness knew, dear,
      When shone my sun and skies were ever fair;
    But the more precious sympathies you tendered
      In sorrow’s hour. _Those_ my jewels rare
    Which dearer, than off’ring wealth knows to proffer,
      I’ll keep beside me whate’er may attend,
    Nor render up so long as Life’s day lasteth,--
      Aye, and take with me, when shall plead its end.




          SOMETHING GONE


    You come to me--you take my hand,
      You try to make me see
    Things should become as they once were,
      ’Twixt you and me.

    I listen to each word, you say,
      I mark well ev’ry tone,
    Only to find--you plead in vain,--
      There’s something gone.

    Something gone--that cannot come back again,
      Tho’ most entreatingly you pray.
    Yet, not mine the fault,--but yours alone,
      It went away.




          A-MAYING


    We will go a-Maying dear,
      Just you and I together,
    Oh, the glory of God’s blossoming
      Sunshiny weather!
    Ev’ry ill we will forget,
      Nor remember a regret,
    For ’twill never do to fret
      Whilst we are a-straying.
    Only laughter ringing clear,
      Waking echo far and near;
    You and I so happy dear;
      A-Maying! A-Maying!




          TRIBUTE


    To prove myself--aye, that’s my aim,
      To prove myself for those
    Who took me by the hand and held,
      Nor cared if others chose
    To notice or pass coldly by.
      Thro’ stormiest of weather
    Stood ever at my side, and said
      We’ll face the world together!




          GOOD-BYE


          _She_

    Good-bye, yes, I’ve decided
      It’s best--it should not go _on_,
    The quite delightful companionship
      You and I, for some time, have known.

    No, do not try to dissuade me,
      I’ve thought it most carefully o’er,
    To arrive at but one conviction--
      We must see each other no more.


          _He_

    And you think to sever our friendship
      By a mere putting away,
    Letting the same, as it were, slip from us
      Nor permitting me to say,

    A word in defence of its going
      As if I’d no _right_ to share
    In the matter of decision
      I ask you,--Is it fair?




          _She_

    Man-like you refuse to _reason_
      To see it’s the only way,
    That the step really should have been taken
      Even _before_ to-day.

    With you ’tis quite diff’rent,--the matter,--
      You’ve priv’lege entire of your life;
    But my freedom bows to restriction,--
      I am another man’s wife.


          _He_

    Yes, another man’s wife, but the honor
      The Fates have conferred, it would seem
    He doesn’t the quite appreciate,--
      At least, ’tis the knowledge I gleam.

    From observing his attitude towards you,
      Which I’m sure,--and you can but agree,
    Is not in the least in keeping with what
      A husband’s towards a wife _should_ be.




          _She_

    And his failing you think permits me
      Favor to accept at _your_ hands,
    That the vow I took at the altar
      Ceases to impose its demands.

    In sickness or health I promised,
      “For better or worse”,--till the day,
    He who gave should in his judgment
      See fit to take away.


          _He_

    And you’ll let it bind you, that promise,
      To a man who does not care;
    Whose int’rest is the thoroughly selfish,
      In whose secrets--you do not share,

    Listen, dear, the priv’lege of Mortals,--
      To get what we can out of life.
    Free yourself from the bond that is irksome
      And find happiness, as my wife.




          _She_

    Nay, not so, the rule of living
      Holds faithful but to the one test;
    Nor counts it--another’s transgression,
      We must give of _ourselves_--our best.

    Of no use to appeal the exception,
      The truth remains fix’ed alway,
    So, good-bye, it _must_ be,--and, God bless you,--
      _There is nothing more to say_.




          THE WONDROUS SONG


    I longed to sing a wondrous song,
      So wondrous, ’twould compel
    The admiration unreserved
      Of one and all as well.

    My pen I took in hand and strove
      The magic words to write,
    Alas! I could not of my Muse
      Inspiration invite.

    She would not humor, tho’ I begged
      Persistently and long
    For the right metre--the right thought,
      To best set down my song.

    ’Twas stately phrase I coveted,
      The Laurel I would court--
    That of the world’s acknowledgment
      Of unsurpass´ed thought.

    At length disheartened, my appeal
      Knew, but to be denied,
    I rose and to the window moved,
      And marked the scene outside.

    All quiet stretched the land before,
      Enwrapt in the soft haze
    Which with such rare enchantment clothes
      Autumn’s initial days.

    Idly my glance the expanse swept
      Till it came to where lay
    Outside the gate, the winding road
      Leading to far-away.

    Then with the moment light was mine--
      Yet not complex its thought,
    The inspiration which appealed
      Was diff’rent, from that sought.

    The winding road--the simple theme--
      They who followed after--
    The toll it wrested of sad tears,
      For short dole of laughter.

    The tranquil ways bidden farewell,
      To seek of its unrest,
    The truth alas! too oft brought home,
      The paths forsook, were best.

    Could I but so compose a lay,
      That one who heard might pause,
    Nor continue to sacrifice
      In an unrighteous cause.

    And keep his soul tho’ it should be
      By cruelest conflict wrung,
    I need not further supplicate--
      My wondrous song were sung.




          MILADI


    Miladi is so wonderful in furbelows and laces;
    Miladi is so wonderful of such beguiling graces;
    My poor faint heart goes pit-a-pat when she her Slave addresses
    I wonder if how _much_ I love, Miladi guesses!

    Miladi is so wonderful, her dimples and her curls;
    Miladi is so wonderful, my mind bewildered whirls;
    Oh would some pow’r benign might make it plain for me to see
    How much it is, in very truth, Miladi thinks of _me_.




          THE SOMETHING MY LIFE HAS MISSED


    It whispers in the murmur
      Of the breezes passing by,
    Pulsates in the azure
      Of ev’ry flawless sky.
    And oh! when twilight gathers
      And its curtain gently falls,
    The-something-my-life-has-missed
      Calls and calls.

    Part of the Throng have found it,
      The light within their eyes
    Pleads of too great a radiance
      The truth to disguise.
    Their world is all they wish for,
      Nor know they to implore
    From off Destiny’s altar
      Happiness more.

    It whispers in the murmur
      Of the breezes passing by,
    Pulsates in the azure
      Of ev’ry flawless sky.
    Some day I, too, shall know it
      In all its ecstacy,
    The-something-my-life-has-missed
      Will come to me.




          CONTENTMENT


    To have you with me day by day
      Watch you flitting to and fro,
    In and out this room and that,
      Up and down the stairs and lo!
    With each turn mark you at
      Some task benign--love bids you know.

    To have you with me day by day,
      A tender, trusting, gracious self
    Let the world treasure as it may,
      To me, far dearer than its wealth
    Your comradeship. Nor pleads the hour
      In all God’s calendar so true,
    With blessing richer for its dow’r
      Than the rare one which gave me,--_you_.




          GONE


    I turn to find you,
      But do not see--
    Who at my side I knew
      Continually.

    Again, I hearken!
      But do not hear,
    Your voice answer mine
      In tones so clear.

    Gone!--nevermore on earth
      To see, to know,
    And I still live on
      God!--is it so?




          TO MY MUSE


    Let others bow before Wealth’s shrine,
      And tribute render up
    For the pleasures manifold it brings
      To overflow Life’s cup.
    But at your altar, Muse, I kneel
      And reverential pray,
    When darkness would have claimed my soul--
      You held its blight at bay.

    My sky of Life was overcast--
      Nor showed one patch of blue--
    Love had betrayed, and deep,--ah, deep!
      My heart drank of its rue.
    Where lo! a hand my shoulder pressed,
      E’en as I would give up;--
    I turned,--your eyes looked into mine--
      There passed the cup.

    A music wonderful entranced
      Which led to heights afar;
    Ever it beckoned on, and on,
      My guiding star.
    The chains that hitherto had held,--
      How worthless proved their pow’r!
    Instead of wishing Life to pass
      I thanked God for each hour.

    _Let others bow before Wealth’s shrine,
      And tribute render up
    For the pleasures manifold it brings
      To overflow Life’s cup.
    But at your altar, Muse, I kneel
      And reverential pray,
    When darkness would have claimed my soul,--
      You held its blight at bay._




          CONCEPTION


    To the many you give of your lighter vein
      Laughter and gay repartee.
    But the deeper side,--that which thinks things out,
      You give to me.

    With the many you play Life’s make-believe game;
      ’Tis a bantering light they see
    When they look in your eyes, their earnest gaze
      You save for me.

    The many accept you for what you would seem;
      From such blundering am I free:
    I know you for your own true self,--the self
      You are to me.




          AWAKENING


    Oh, truth was mine before. I knew
      The sun was gold; the skies of day were blue;
    But the wonder of things, dear--_this_ never grew
      Until into my life, God’s grace sent _you_.




          THE HOUSE BUILT ON SANDS


    We will go, he said, far, far away,
      And a world make of our own.
    A kingdom, such as never before
      On land or sea, has been known.

    She smiled into his eyes,--and oh! the look
      Of perfect trust she gave
    As he gathered her close, vowing the while
      Allegiance unto the grave.

    Well, they went away and made their world
      As others had done before,
    For the time being love blinding them
      To the confine of its shore.

    They were all-in-all to each other, alone,
      And it mattered not a whit,
    That, in the scheme of things outside the pale,
      They were not permitted to fit.

    Defiance they flung in the face of dissent!
      Life,--was it not their right
    To live it as they wanted to?
      And they would, all warning despite.

    Why burden the pages by writing down
      Their history in detail?
    Was ever yet such a compact made
      That was known _not_ to fail.

    ’Twas a question of time,--“_The house built on sands_”
      From its moorings slipped away;
    They who court Fate’s disfavor--or soon--or late,
      “Pass under the rod” of her sway.




          TO A BUTTERFLY


    Butterfly, Butterfly,
      Roaming thro’ the air--
    Flying here, flying there,
      Flying--ev’rywhere.
    Bending o’er the roses’ petals,
      Drinking of their dew,
    Then away--with quick dart--
      Cleaving towards the blue!

    Butterfly, Butterfly,
      Roaming thro’ the air--
    If I, like you, had privilege,
      To wander ev’rywhere.
    I’d spread my wings and soar up! up!
      Straight to Heav’n’s door--
    And when I got there Butterfly,
      I’d roam no more!




          A FRAGMENT


    Flowers exquisite frequent thrive,
      Hidden in the shade
    Of some o’er-arching foliage
      In a secluded glade.

    They need the shadow, not the sun,
      To best perfect their bloom.
    E’en so, life’s rarest thought expands
      Oft, in its darkened room.




          QUERY


    You love me, you say, and want me
      To become your own.
    I believe you are in earnest now,
      But,--as the years go on--

    What do you think will happen!
      Shall we travel side by side,
    Lovers, and faithful companions,
      Whatever may betide?

    So many have taken the venture,
      But to find it turn out for the bad,
    Who, at the beginning, just as much faith
      In a different outcome had.

    That I’m fearful our fate might be like theirs,--
      Have we proof, think you, it will not?
    A guarantee,--we shall never grow tired
      And want to unfasten the knot?

    Tho’ my love is yours, ’twere far better,
      Our paths separately should trend;
    Than start together, and _then_ diverge,
      Nor accomplish the journey’s end.




          I CLOSE MINE EYES


    I close mine eyes, and see you dear
      As in the dear, dead days;
    The tender grace, and strength of poise,
      Marking you from the rest apart.
    And oh! it seems as if I must
      Enfold you to my heart.

    I close mine eyes, and see you dear
      As in the dear, dead days;
    The hair’s soft fall over the brow,
      Within your eyes love’s ardent light,
    It cannot be! it cannot be!
      My day has turned to night.

    I close mine eyes, and see you dear
      As in the dear, dead days;
    Before love’s bitter aftermath
      Whose penalty ’tis mine to know.
    Oh! come to me from out its void!
      _I need you so! I need you so._




          UNDERSTANDING


    You have not spoken the word, dear,
      But I know! I know!
    It came to me of a-sudden
      How you loved me so!
    A glance which escaped unguarded,
      The truth made plain.
    I’ve hugged its memory to me
      Over, and over again!

    You have not spoken the word, dear,
      But I know! I know!
    It came to me of a-sudden
      How you loved me so!
    A breath, with a catch in the taking,--
      And my world, you see,
    Became changed,--for I love you, dear!
      As you love me!




          WE MET IN MAY


    We met in May, I know you have forgotten,
    Have long since put all thought of me away;
    Yet in my heart the mem’ry ever lingers,--
                We met in May.

    Fragrant the air with redolence of blossom!
    Matchless the sky of perfect, cloudless blue!
    And oh! the music that the world was ringing--
                When I met you.

    Another has your fancy from me captured;
    Her lot,--Fate’s tenderer impulse to know.
    Whilst I, adown the years waiting the facing,
                Alone, must go.

    No thought is mine save that bequeaths a blessing;--
    God grant your life be a long, happy day.
    You have forgotten, but I must remember,--
                We met in May.




          I TURN ME DOWN A LIGHTED WAY


    I turn me down a lighted way
      Where laughter rings and song floats out;
    And, as I gain the happy throng,
      All eagerly they flock about.

    I smile on this side, and on that,
      Join the gay flow of repartee:
    Yet, deep, deep down, within my heart
      Echoes the endless moan for thee.

    I hark to him who compliments,
      Within my eyes a sparkling light.
    I play the game,--nor does he guess
      Its fire has burned to ashes white.

    They count me merriest of all.
      Not one who notes the deep-down sigh,
    Who lists--Life’s tragic undertone,--
    _We’ve said good-bye--we’ve said good-bye_.




          COUNSEL


    Have you balked at the test you’ve been put to,
      Are you weary of straining a point?
    Is the fight too hard, the way too long?
    Is there too much of sighing, too little of song?
    Does ev’ry thing seem to be going wrong?
      The scheme entire, as it were, out of joint?

    Then lend me an ear whilst I counsel awhile,
      You must take a _fresh_ grip, my friend,
    The game is yours if you’ll make it your own,
    Defeat is a word that need never be known.
    He who _sticks_ in his mount, _cannot_ be thrown,
      Let his steed strive its best to that end.

    The sun goes down with the gloom of each night,
      But it rises again with each morn,
    And there’s so much of brightness to be gathered in,
    Such wonderful happiness ours to win,
    Throw despair to the winds, and anew begin,
      Standing forth--the Mortal re-born!




          DECISION


    At times, I think, were we to talk it over
      The something wanting in your life and mine,
    We might arrive at clearer understanding
      The cause of our unhappiness define.

    Yet, ever with the impulse strong upon me
      Such course to follow out as for the best,
    Comes swift the contradictory impression,--
      ’Twould useless be to put it to the test.

    That sympathy which pleads when souls are mated
      Is the so woefully lacking,--’tis clear,
    It could not prove aught else than effort wasted,--
      You are so far,--to try and draw you near.




          YOU NEVER GUESSED THE SECRET


    You never guessed the secret,
      Nor have unto to-day.
    The truth of it never reached you,
      I hid it so well away.
    The truth of how I loved you,
      Yet spake not, for your sake;
    Nor is it easy to put aside
      What One so longs to take.

    The voice of you, in my musings,
      The glance of you, in my dreams;
    The feeling, you ever were near me,
      Even now, how compelling it seems!
    As if but to turn--were to see you;
      To know the clasp of your hand;
    Yet, I guarded the knowledge carefully,
      And you did not understand.

    Still the thought of you hurt, and I hungered--
      Hungered, day and night,
    It will count when the story is ended,
      I was able to see aright.
    You never guessed the secret,
      Nor have unto to-day.
    The truth of it never reached you,
      I hid it so well away.




          THE LIGHT


    The light! the light!
      For all is dark,
    The light I pray,
      My feet stumble,
    I cannot find the way.

    The light! the light!
      For all is dark,
    Soon the night
      Complete, will overtake
    The light! the light! Oh! God--the light!




          EDUCATION


    You say you are shocked, my lady,--and so you ought to be.
      A comedy, quite upon my soul,
    To make me love you,--then fence about
      When I demand only righteous toll.

    An innocent flirtation, you intended no harm,--
      Well, a lesson the trifler learns,
    To keep a safe distance away from fire,--
      For the truth, not the lie, it burns.




          RE-ADJUSTMENT


    You beg of me to forgive you
      The Other in your life.
    She, who has for some time, I’ve discovered,
      Been defrauding the wife.

    You avow you never loved her
      That ’twas she led you along--
    And why hold one responsible
      Who’s not guilty of a wrong?

    Won’t I forgive, as you urge me,
      Forgive and try to forget?
    Let the rest of your life be a token,
      Of how sincere your regret.

    I must have time for my answer,
      Some things take the breath--
    It seems to die, we need not
      Always wait for death.

    I loved you so absolutely,
      Thought you so completely my own;
    I never questioned but that we meant
      All in all to each other--alone.

    And you the while were betraying
      The faith I held so dear,
    Selling the same to another--
      No, do not come near.

    When its foundation becomes weakened,
      A structure is undermined,
    Nor can it at all times, be strengthened anew,
      They who venture the effort, find.

    I will do my best to replace it--
      The foundation my trust hath known;
    Should I fail--tho’ sincere my intention--tion--
      You must go on your way--alone.




          FROM “RHYMES FOR WEE SWEETHEARTS”


Acknowledgment is made to Messrs. George W. Jacobs & Company for their
courtesy in granting permission to reprint in this volume verses from
“Rhymes for Wee Sweethearts.”




          WHEN GRANDMAMA WAS LITTLE


    When grandmama was little--
      It was years and years ago,
    In what folks call, at this time,
      The old-fashioned days, you know--
    Why, she had such a perfect time,
      The best you ever saw:
    We wish that we’d been little
      Same time as grandmama.

    She tells us all about it,
      And then, if we are good,
    And just sit still and listen,
      The way all children should,
    And never interrupt a bit,
      Or question ’bout the rest
    Till she’s all through, she shows us
      The things up in her chest.

    I can’t begin to tell you
      The half of what is there:
    The rag-dolls soiled and faded
      That haven’t any hair,
    And toys, and--oh, yes!--lady-dolls,
      And, folded with the rest,
    A little rose-bud muslin frock,
      Her one-time very best.

    And there’s her picture taken
      In this self-same gown,
    With ruffles reaching to the waist
      And panties showing down;
    Hair parted in the middle;
      Over each ear a curl:
    Oh! but our grandmama was pretty!
      When a little girl!




          HAROLD’S LAMENT


    Blamed if I see any fun
      In being a boy,
    With ev’rybody trying
      Their hardest to annoy!
    It’s “Harold” here, and “Harold” there
      Until they have me sick
    Of “Run along!”--“Don’t be slow!”--
      Or “Hurry up; be quick!”

    First some one sends me down-stairs,
      I run with might and main;
    Before I’m half-way there it’s turn
      And run right up again!
    And sure as I go out to play,
      Or have a little fun,
    I’m called straight in: there’s something else
      A-waiting to be done!

    I just believe I’ll run away;
      Pack all my things and go!
    Can’t see the use of staying ’round
      And being treated so!
    For I just bet when they were small,
      Not _one_ of them would do
    Half of the errands and the things
      That I’m expected to!




          MRS. SPIDER


    Brother Dick and I one day
    Watched Mrs. Spider spin away:
    My, how she spun, and spun, and spun,
    Until she had her web all done!
    Then, brother Dick, he said to me:
    “Now, where can Mr. Spider be?”
    We watched, but didn’t see him come,
    So I guess he couldn’t have lived at home.




          THE NAUGHTY LITTLE GIRL


    When I’m so awf’ly naughty,
        And
            just
                won’t
                    do
    The very littlest tiny thing
        That
            I’m
                told
                    to,
    But kick and scream when any one
      Attempts to come my way,
    And press my fingers to my ears
      To miss what they may say,
    Why, then my mother says that I’m
      As bad as bad can be;
    She says she thinks it’s some one else
        Instead
              of
                me.
    She says she’s sure the little girl
        She
            used
                to
                    know
    Would never do the horrid things
        That
            hurt
                her
                    so;
    And though she doesn’t try to whip,
      She looks so very sad
    That somehow I just get ashamed
      And can’t keep being bad:
    I chase the naughty girl away
      As far as far can be;
    Then I run and kiss my mother, so
        She’ll
            know
                I’m
                    me!




          ON THE STAIR


    A wee form nestles on the stair,
      Two eyes betraying
    The Sand-man has o’ertaken there
      Wee steps delaying.
    Too tired to mount the flight to bed,
    Dear little tumbled golden head,
    Just resting there a while instead,
      Through dreamland straying.




          THE LAND O’ DREAMS


    All aboard for the Land o’ Dreams!
      (One for the money and two for the show!)
    All aboard for the Land o’ Dreams!
      (Three to make ready and four to go!)
            The passenger’s late,
            But the cars all wait--
    Just hark to the brakeman’s cries:
      “All aboard for the Land o’ Dreams!”--
    And the tickets are drowsy eyes.


          II

    All aboard for the Land o’ Dreams!
      (One for the money and two for the show!)
    All aboard for the Land o’ Dreams!
      (Three to make ready and four to go!)
            The whistles sound,
            And the wheels go ’round,
    And the bright green fields slip past;
      The passenger’s here and the track is clear
    To the Land o’ Dreams at last!




          THE MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT


    Sometimes at night I get awake
      And all’s so dark and still--
    Why I’m ’bout scared even to take
      A deep-down breath, until
    I peer ’round first and try to see
      If ev’rything’s all right!
    For the terriblest things can be,--
      The Middle of the Night.

    I want so much to cry right out--
      But I am awful ’fraid!
    ’Cause, if those black things _were_ about,
      They’d hear the noise I made.
    And mother sleeps so very sound,
      She mightn’t hear, you see,
    And then they’d make a great big bound
      And run away with me.

    So I lie just still as I can--
      My heart a-thumping so!
    Wishing I were a great big man,
      So I’d not scare, you know.
    When oh!--the covers pull away
      And just as I begin
    To scream--why, I hear mother say
      It’s her tucking them in!




          WHEN OUR FATHERS WERE LITTLE BOYS


    When our fathers were little boys,
      Before they grew to men,
    I wonder did they make a noise
      Or have a good time then?
    I wonder did they ever fight
      And punch each other’s nose?
    Or if they always did just right
      And never spoiled their clothes.

    I wonder did their mothers scold
      Sometimes and make them cry?
    I wonder if they ever told
      A teeny-weeny lie?
    I wonder if they ever had
      Such dirty hands and face?
    I wonder were they ever mad
      And banged things ’round the place?

    I wonder did they ever run
      To fires hard as they could?
    Or if they called it better fun
      To sit still and be good?
    I wonder _were_ they ever small
      And kept back in the shade?
    Or didn’t they have to grow at all,
      But just come ready made?




          SLUMBER LAND


    To all: “Good-night!”
      Two eyes shut tight
    And baby’s bound for Slumber,
      The land where all tired children go,
      The land where white dream-flowers grow
        Beyond my art to number:
                Winks
            And blinks
        And nods all past--
    Mother’s arms are sure and fast,
    Off to Slumber Land at last,
    The moonlit Land of Slumber!




          THE NEW BROTHER


    We’ve got a new kid in our house;
      And it ’bout gives me a fit,
    The fuss that ev’rybody is
      A-making over it.
    All ’long I’ve been the pet, you see,
      ’Twas _me_ they tried to please
    But now, this other fellow has
      Them all upon their knees!

    He’s just about the ugliest!
      And really doesn’t seem
    Able to do another thing
      But double up and scream.
    He’s got no teeth, he’s got no hair,--
      Worst curiosity!
    I’d like some one to tell me _why_
      He counts for more than me!










End of Project Gutenberg's Poems of Life, by Katharine Forrest Hamill

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK POEMS OF LIFE ***

***** This file should be named 51513-0.txt or 51513-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/5/1/51513/

Produced by Larry B. Harrison, Chuck Greif and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
